+++
title = "IEC104"
+++

### IEC104

This Datastream module defines the configuration needed to read data from an Iec104 device.

[To access source code click here](https://github.com/amplia-iiot/oda/tree/master/oda-datastreams/iec104).

#### Dependencies

This module requires the following modules:

* __[IEC104 Comms]({{< ref "infrastructure/comms.md#iec104" >}})__: Provide an implementation of IEC104 Master that the datastream module needs to connect with the devices.
* __[Scada Tables]({{< ref "layers/other/scadatables.md" >}})__: Provide the information of the data to read from the iec104 device (ASDU type, address, datastreamID).

#### Configuration

To configure IEC104 Datastream module, a file named _es.amplia.oda.datastreams.iec104.cfg_ must be created with the next parameters:

* __initialPollingTime__: _Required parameter_. Indicates the time in seconds that pass between the start of the bundle and the first Interrogation Command sent.
* __pollingTime__: _Required parameter_. Indicates the time in seconds between Interrogation Command executions. Every x seconds after the initial Interrogation Command, an Interrogation Command is sent to the iec104 device to retrieve data.
* __qualityBitsMask__: _Optional parameter_. Indicates the mask the quality bits of the values received must comply to consider the values as valid. It is an array of four characters that follow this order :

    ```properties
        qualityBitsMask = valid topical substituted blocked
    ```
    The characters can be '0' (false), '1' (true) or '\*' (either). 
    If we don't specify this parameter, by default all values received are valid (it is applied a mask with four bits as '\*').
    If the value doesn't comply with the mask, it is discarded.

* __qualityBitsNotify__: _Optional parameter_. Indicates if we want to send a notification when a value is discarded by its quality bits. Default value is false.
* __deviceId__: _Required parameter_. Indicates the information needed to connect with device in the next format:

    ```properties
        deviceId=ipAddress;port;commonAddress
    ```

_es.amplia.oda.datastreams.iec104.cfg_ will have a similar format to:

```properties
initialPollingTime=1000
pollingTime=10000
qualityBitsMask=1100
qualityBitsNotify=true
devicejj2=127.0.0.1;2404;1
```

It is possible to define N devices with the format:

```properties
initialPollingTime=1000
pollingTime=10000
qualityBitsMask=1100
qualityBitsNotify=true
devicejj1=127.0.0.1;2404;1
devicejj2=127.0.0.1;2404;2
devicejj3=127.0.0.2;2404;1
```
